# GitHub Basics

##### Beginner level

1. What is GitHub?
Github is a web-based platform used for version control. 
Git simplifies the process of working with other people and makes it easy to collaborate on projects.
Hub is a common connection point for devices in a network.


   
2. What are the advantages of GitHub?
   1.Track changes in your code across versions.
   2.GitHub can integrate with common platforms such as Amazon and Google Cloud.
   3.GitHub is a repository: it allows work to get out there in front of the public.
   4.Makes easy to contribute to open source projects.
   5.Documentation.
   6.Showcase work.


3. What is commit, push, pull?
*Commit- A commit is an individual change to a file (or set of files).
 Commit - Commit is the process which records changes in the repository.

*Push- Push refers to a system in which data is "pushed" to a user's device.
 push command is used to upload local repository content to a remote repository.

*Pull- A pull grabs any changes from the GitHub repository and merges them into your local repository.


4. What is pull request?
 pull request is a method of submitting contributions to an open development project.
 Merge/pull requests are created in a Git management application. ie Assigned person to merge two branches. 


5. How to create repository?
    	Step 1:select new repository.
 	Step 2:Type a name for your repository.
 	Step 3:Add a description of repository.
 	Step 4:Choose a repository visbility.
 	Step 5:Select Initialize this repository with a README.
 	Step 6:click Create repository.


6. How to add collaborators?
	Step 1:Ask for the username of the person inviting as a collaborator.
	Step 2:Under the repository name, click Settings.
	Step 3:click Collaborators.
	Step 4:Under Collaborators, start typing the collaborators username.
	Step 5:Select the collaborator's username from the drop-down menu.
	Step 6:Click Add collaborator.


7. How to merge master to your branch? (Attach screenshots).
	Step 1: Open branch on GitHub. Open the Organization repository on GitHub and switch to the branch that you want to merge into master.
	Step 2: Create pull request. Click New Pull Request to create a pull request.
	Step 3: Merge pull request.
	Step 4: Fetch changes
	

8. How to merge your branch into master? (Attach screenshots).
	Step 1: In the GitHub Desktop client, switch to the branch you want to merge the development branch into. 
	Step 2:	From the branch selector, select the master branch. 
	Step 3:	Go to Branch Merge into Current Branch. 
	Step 4:	In the merge window, select the development branch, and then click Merge development into master.
	

9. How to create pull request?  (Attach screenshots).
	



10. How to create branch?  (Attach screenshots).
	Step 1: At the top of the app, switch to the branch that you want to base the new branch on by clicking the Current Branch and choosing it from the list.
	Step 2:	Click New Branch.
	Step 3:	Under Name, type the name of the new branch.
	Step 4:	Select either the current branch, or the default branch (usually master) to base the new branch on.
	Step 5: Click Create Branch. 



11. How to delete branch? (Attach screenshots).
	Step 1:Navigate to the main page of the repository.
	Step 2:Above the list of files, click NUMBER branches.
	Step 3:Scroll to the branch that you want to delete, then click .
	


12. How to delete repository? (Attach screenshots).
	Step 1:	Login to your account.
	Step 2: Click on Repositories.
	Step 3:	Select your Repository (that you wants to delete)
	Step 4:	Click on settings tab.
	Step 5:	Goto "Danger Zone" block.
	Step 6: Click on "Delete this repository" button.
	Step 7:	Type the repository name (that you wants to delete)
	Step 8: Now click "I understand the consequences, delete this repository" button.
	Step 9:	Now your repository deleted successfully.

	



##### Intermediate level

12. What is fork?

    

13. How to create fork?  (Attach screenshots).

    

14. How to merge changes from fork to master project?  (Attach screenshots).



15. How to Undo commit changes?  (Attach screenshots).

    

16. What is revert?

    

17. How to revert changes?  (Attach screenshots).



##### Advanced level

18. What is LFS? 



19. How to install LFS and add LFS file into it?  (Attach screenshots).



20. How to push LFS commits?  (Attach screenshots).





