# GitHub Basics

##### Beginner level

1. What is GitHub?

GitHub is a Git repository hosting service. 
Git : Git keeps track of our source code history.
GitHub : GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service that lets you manage Git repositories.
GitHub is used to store and share the documents through cloud.
   

2. What are the advantages of GitHub?

a) It makes it easy to contribute to your open source projects
To be honest, nearly every open-source project uses GitHub to manage their project. Using GitHub is free if your project is open source and includes a wiki and issue tracker that makes it easy to include more in-depth documentation and get feedback about your project. If you want to contribute, you just fork a project, make your changes and then send them a pull request using GitHub web interface.

 b) Documentation
By using GitHub, you make it easier to get excellent documentation. Their help section and guides have articles for nearly any topic related to git that you can think of.

 c) Showcase your work
Are you a developer and wishes to attract recruiters? GitHub is the best tool you can rely on for this. Today, when searching for new recruits for their project, most companies look into the GitHub profiles. If your profile is available, you will have a higher chance of being recruited even if you are not from a great university or college.

 d) Markdown
Markdown allows you to use a simple text editor to write formatted documents. GitHub has revolutionized writing by channeling everything through Markdown: from the issue tracker, user comments, everything. With so many other programming languages to learn for setting up projects, it’s really a big benefit to have your content inputted in a format without having to learn yet another system.
 e) GitHub is a repository
This was already mentioned before, but it’s important to note, GitHub is a repository.
What this means that it allows your work to get out there in front of the public. Moreover, GitHub is one of the largest coding communities around right now, so it’s wide exposure for your project.

 f) Track changes in your code across versions
When multiple people collaborate on a project, it’s hard to keep track revisions—who changed what, when, and where those files are stored. GitHub takes care of this problem by keeping track of all the changes that have been pushed to the repository. Much like using Microsoft Word or Google Drive, you can have a version history of your code so that previous versions are not lost with every iteration.

 g) Integration options
GitHub can integrate with common platforms such as Amazon and Google Cloud, services such as Code Climate to track your feedback, and can highlight syntax in over 200 different programming languages.
   

3. What is commit, push, pull?

Commit –The commit command is used to save your changes to the local repository.
Push – The push command is used to upload local repository content to a remote repository.
Pull - Pull command let you tell others about changes you've pushed to a branch in a repository on GitHub.



4. What is pull request?

Pull requests let you tell others about changes you've pushed to a branch in a repository on GitHub. Once a pull request is opened, 
you can discuss and review the potential changes with collaborators and add follow-up commits before your changes are merged into the base branch.



5. How to create repository?

1. In the upper-right corner of any page, click , and then click New repository
2. In the Owner drop-down, select the account you wish to create the repository on.
3. Type a name for your repository, and an optional description.
4. Choose to make the repository either public or private. Public repositories are visible to the public, while private repositories are only accessible to you, and people you share them with. For more information, see "Setting repository visibility."
5. There are a number of optional items you can pre-populate your repository with. If you're importing an existing repository to GitHub Enterprise, don't choose any of these options, as you may introduce a merge conflict. You can choose to add new files using the command line later. For more information, see "Importing a Git repository using the command line," "Adding a file to a repository using the command line," and "Addressing merge conflicts."
	o You can create a README, which is a document describing your project. For more information, see "About READMEs."
	o You can create a .gitignore file, which is a set of ignore rules. For more information, see "Ignoring files."
6. When you're finished, click Create repository.


6. How to add collaborators?

1. Ask for the username of the person you're inviting as a collaborator.
2. On GitHub Enterprise, navigate to the main page of the repository.
3. Under your repository name, click  Settings.
4. In the left sidebar, click Collaborators.
5. Under "Collaborators", start typing the collaborator's username.
6. Select the collaborator's username from the drop-down menu.
7. Click Add collaborator.



7. How to merge master to your branch? (Attach screenshots).

1. Create and switch to a new branch. Make sure the new branch is based on master so it will include the recent changes.
2. After switching to the new branch, merge the changes from your existing feature branch.
3. On the new branch, resolve any conflicts between your feature and the master branch.


8. How to merge your branch into master? (Attach screenshots).
Follow Above Steps but the only difference is to keep the Current Branch to Master.


9. How to create pull request?  (Attach screenshots).



10. How to create branch?  (Attach screenshots).

1. At the top of the app, switch to the branch that you want to base the new branch on by clicking the  Current Branch and choosing it from the list.
2. Click New Branch.
3. Under Name, type the name of the new branch.
4. Select either the current branch, or the default branch (usually master) to base the new branch on.
5. Click Create Branch.
 


11. How to delete branch? (Attach screenshots).

1. On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.
2. Above the list of files, click  NUMBER branches.
3. Scroll to the branch that you want to delete, then click .
 


12. How to delete repository? (Attach screenshots).

1. Login to your account
2. Click on Repositories
3. Select your Repository (that you wants to delete)
4. Click on settings tab
5. Goto "Danger Zone" block
6. Click on "Delete this repository" button
7. Type the repository name (that you wants to delete)
8. Now click "I understand the consequences, delete this repository" button
9. Now your repository deleted successfully.



##### Intermediate level

12. What is fork?

    

13. How to create fork?  (Attach screenshots).

    

14. How to merge changes from fork to master project?  (Attach screenshots).



15. How to Undo commit changes?  (Attach screenshots).

    

16. What is revert?

    

17. How to revert changes?  (Attach screenshots).



##### Advanced level

18. What is LFS? 



19. How to install LFS and add LFS file into it?  (Attach screenshots).



20. How to push LFS commits?  (Attach screenshots).





